* ABSTRACT

The filter uses a variable window size. After identifying
distorted pixels, if there is at least one or more undistorted pixels are encountered
in the processing window, the updated value of the distorted pixel is calculated by
the weighted mean of undistorted pixels when a window size is 3×3 and replaced
by the mean value of the undistorted pixels with the highest frequency
distribution when a window size is larger. This filter is applied twice in order to
sufficiently remove high noise levels. The comparison results with other
denoising filters indicate that the developed filter has superior or comparable
denoising capability in terms of visual appearance and objective measures.

* INTRODUCTION

Using Median filters for filtering Salt&Pepper noise is a common practice

Several modifications have been suggested to improve the performance of the MF.
A switching operator is used with the median filter to preserve undistorted pixels in images [3]. 
The idea of switching operator is to detect impulse noise according to a specific condition in order to decide
which pixels should be modified. 
Wang and Zhang [4] applied median filtering with a switching operator progressively over several iterations. 
This filter is denoted as PSMF. 

Srinivasan and Ebenezer [5] developed a two-stage decision-based algorithm (DBA). First, the pixels with salt-
and-pepper noise are marked. Then, these distorted pixels are updated by a median value within a window of size 3×3. 
This algorithm yields artefacts when noise levels are very high. To mitigate
this drawback, 

Esakkirajan et al. [6] introduced a modified decision-based unsymmetric trimmed
median filter (MDBUTMF). In this filter, the noisy pixels are replaced by either a trimmed
median value of noise-free pixels or by mean value when all pixels in the processing window are
noisy. The main weakness of this filter is that it does not give satisfactory results when all pixels
inside the window are noisy. 

Zhang et al. [7] designed a new impulse noise detection using evidential reasoning and a new adaptive MF


The denoising capability of the MF is also improved by adapting the processing window size in
accordance with the noise level.

Hwang and Haddad [8] developed an adaptive median filter
(AMF) in which the processing window size is modified with regards to noise levels. The results
of this filter indicate that a window size of 5×5 gave a good result when a noise level was 30%
and a window size of 11×11 gave a satisfactory result when a noise level was 70%. Although this
filter works adequately for low and medium noise levels, it cannot cope with high noise levels.

The center-weighted median filter (CWM) filter [9] and its modified version [10] are also
developed. The CWM filter introduced weights to each median filter component such that the
central weight is greater than other weights. In [10], the difference between the CWM filter
output and the central pixel is used in the detection of noise. Based on a simple threshold
operator, the final filter output is selected as either the median value or the central pixel.

Kalyoncu et al. [11] proposed an interpolation-based impulse noise removal technique in which a
weighted mean value is calculated as a final filter output for each noisy pixel. The weights are
computed according to the distance between the surrounding pixels and the primary pixel in
adaptive window size.

Zhang and Li [12] introduced an adaptive weighted mean filter (AWMF)
where the adaptive window is used in order to detect distorted pixels. After that, the distorted
pixels are restored using the weighted mean value.

Kandemir et al. [13] eliminated the spatial
tendency to the center of undistorted pixels via first detecting distorted pixels, then recalibrating
the weights for the undistorted pixels and finally replacing the distorted pixels with the weighted
mean value. Erkan et al. 

[14] adopted a new filter (DAMF) for restoring salt-and-pepper noise.
First, the distorted image is padded symmetrically. Three window sizes are used and the proper
size is chosen depending on local image content. Then, the distorted pixels are modified using the
median value of undistorted pixels.

Many filters have been developed using fuzzy set theory [15,16,17,18,19]. Eng and Ma [15]
incorporated a novel switching mechanism with a weighted median filter using fuzzy set theory to
deal with the weakness of the traditional switching-based median filters. This mechanism has
been tested on noise levels, ranging from 10% to 70%. Toh and Isa [16] combined a switching
median filter and fuzzy reasoning into a hybrid filtering scheme, which is denoted as NAFSM. In
this scheme, the histogram is employed to identify distorted pixels. Ahmed and Das [17]
developed an iterative adaptive fuzzy filter. First, a new detector using a fuzzy set scheme is
designed to detect distorted pixels. Then, the detected pixels are modified via a weighted mean
filter. Wang et al. [18] developed a fuzzy switching based weighted mean filter for recovering
pixels distorted by impulse noise. In this filter, the distorted pixels are detected using the
maximum value of an absolute luminance difference in a processing window. In [19], the
distorted pixels are determined by tuning two Gaussian membership functions. The final filter
output is calculated using weighted mean filtering based on a fuzzy approach.

The evaluation results from different filers in the literature demonstrate that:
 (1) mean filtering outperforms median filtering for restoring salt-and-pepper noise, 
 (2) an adaptive (dynamic) window size gives a superior performance over a fixed window
     size particularly when noise levels are high, 
 (3) modifying only distorted pixels can better preserve image details. Therefore, this 
     work proposes a new filter for dealing with salt-and-pepper noise in which the distorted
     pixels are firstly determined, and then a denoising operation is performed on these pixels.
     For each distorted pixel, the filter output is calculated as the weighted mean of 
     undistorted pixels when the window size is 3×3 and calculated as the mean value of 
     undistorted pixels which have the highest frequencies in accordance to their histogram 
     distribution when the window size is larger.


* THE PROPOSED FILTER DESCRIPTION

The proposed filter only restores the distorted pixels using their neighboring undistorted pixels.
The values of undistorted pixels are kept without alteration.
The binary mask S is created to detect the position of distorted pixels in the matrix B.

 In the filtering process, the window size is varied in order to deal with different noise levels.
 For each identified noisy pixel, the size of the window is adapted in accordance to the noise level.
 If none of undistorted pixels is encountered in the processing window, the size of this window is continuously enlarged.
 If at least one or more undistorted pixels is detected, the weight(v) is calculated for each one.
(according to the Manhattan distance of the undistorted pixel to the center of the window.)

  After that, the weighted mean value of undistorted pixels is calculated as the filter output when the window size is 3×3.
  For larger window size, the undistorted pixels with the highest frequency are extracted and the mean value of these pixels is used as the new output.

"""
  The frequencies of the pixels can give an indication of the main intensity value that is dominated in the window.
  The mean value of the highest frequency pixels could better preserve image details than the mean values of all undistorted pixels when the window size is greater than 3×3
"""

  Finally, if the largest window size is reached to a predetermined maximum value and none of the local pixels is noise-free, the pixel with the highest frequency in the window is selected as the new output value.
  This filter is applied twice in order to deal with high noise levels

"""
  weighted mean value gives better results when the window size is set at 3×3. While the mean value of only the highest frequency pixels give superior results when the window size is greater than 3×3
"""  





















































































